What is...what is the purpose of life,
if you could give us some perspective?
Thank you!  Is
n't it fantastic that, having no purpose,
having nothing to accomplish,
you can just live?
Hmm?
No,
you are asking for a purpose,
and not just a simple purpose, but a Divine purpose.  It
is very dangerous.
People who believe they have a purpose set by God
are responsible for the worst things on the planet.  Yes or no
?
They do the most horrible things
and have always done the most horrible things
because when you have a purpose from God,
life becomes less important.
No,
life is important.
Life is important.
When I say life, I do
n't mean your family life, your work, what you do, or what you don't do, your parties.  I do
n't mean life in this sense.
That's life, isn't it?
Is life within you or around you?  The
ambiance of life...
you're confusing the ambiance of life with life.
Your home, your family, your work, your party,
this is the ambiance of your life.
This isn't life, is it?  Yes or no
?  Yes.
You are confusing the ambiance of life with real life.
Not.
Life is important
because it is the only thing you know, you
know nothing else.  Do
you know anything else?
The rest is just imagination, right?
The only thing that pulsates and has life is this.
So, is this important?  It
is extremely important.
Not you as a person, that's not what's important,
but you as a part of life
are very important
because that's the foundation for everything.
When I say that this is the foundation for everything, the
universe exists for you only because you exist, right?  Yes or no
?
The world exists for you only because you exist,
otherwise it would not exist in your experience.
So, in all ways this is important.
So, what is the purpose?
You see, if you had a goal and you accomplished it,
what else would you do?
What are you doing next?
Boredom, isn't it?  It's just
that life is so complex and so phenomenally complicated
that if you spent 10,000 years carefully analyzing it, you
still wouldn't discover it in its entirety.
If you spent a million years looking at her with absolute attention you
still wouldn't know her completely.
That's how things are.  Does it make
sense?
The most wonderful thing about life is that it has no meaning.
This is the most significant aspect of life, namely that it has no meaning.
and it doesn't even need a meaning.
Only the small mind seeks meaning
because on a psychological level you feel somehow disconnected from life
if you don't have a purpose and meaning.
People are always trying to create these false goals.
So, they were somehow well and happy.
Suddenly, they got married.
Now the goal is the other person.
Then they have children.
Now they hate each other.
Now the reason I endure suffering is children.
In this way, we move forward.
Are these things that you create
and consider the purpose of life,
and is there a purpose from God?  What
if God doesn't know you exist?
No, I'm just asking, randomly.  I'm just saying
that, in this immense cosmos,
where God is supposed to be the Creator
and ruler of these hundreds of billions of galaxies,
of which this little planet
and you are a part...
Suppose He doesn't know that you exist?
Is it possible or not?
Sorry, I'm saying so many sacrileges,
but is it possible or not?  What
if He doesn't know you exist?  What
if he doesn't have a plan for you?
Let's assume that He doesn't have a plan,
a personal plan for you.
Don't look for these things.
Creation is made in such a way that
Creation and Creator cannot be separated.
Here you are a part of creation.
At the same time, the source of creation pulsates within you.
If you were a little more attentive to this process of life, you would
n't need any goals.  It would keep
you busy for a million years if you wanted to.
So much happening
so much means so many incredible things are happening right here.
If you're careful enough,
a million years of existence will keep you busy and beyond.
At this moment, you need a purpose
because you are stuck in your psychological structure,
and not in the process of your life.
From a psychological point of view,
your psychological structure works with the limited information it has accumulated.  That's how it
works now,
thoughts and feelings have become more important than life.  Isn't that right?  Isn't that right
?
So, for this reason you are looking for a purpose through which to free yourself from the trap you
have set for yourself.
It is a trap of its own.
You can easily get out of it.
If the trap was set for you by someone else,
it's more difficult to get out
because they'll set the trap in such a way that you can't free yourself, right?
I'm talking... I'm talking about life and not marriage, that's what I
mean.  That's what
I mean.
So if it's a trap of its own.
You get off easy,
but that's the whole point.  The
reason it's difficult
is that you've become one with that trap, you
like it.  You
like it because it gives you a certain sense of
safety and security and protection and individual identity.
If you wrap yourself in a cocoon,
you feel safe,
but at the same time it imprisons you.
Self-preserving walls are also self-imprisoning walls.
When they protect you, you enjoy it.
When they limit you, you don't enjoy it.  That's why
we have doors.
We like walls because they protect us,
but we have doors so we can open them and get out when we want.
No matter how nice it is, we still want to go out, right?  That's the way it is
with any trap you set.
No matter how nice it is, you still want to go out.
So, the psychological wall that you have erected,
which gives you some sense of identity,
which gives you some sense that you are a person,
a unique person, and which gives you security,
starting to feel like a trap,
somewhere you will want to break it.
So, one way to not break it is to find a purpose.
Those who find purpose in their lives,
become so conceited... They
will live in their own trap forever
thinking they are doing the most fantastic thing.
First you need balance.
If you don't have balance, you can't climb.
If you're off balance, you better stay down, right?  It
's not safe for someone who is not balanced to climb to high altitudes.
It's better to stay close to the ground.  You
shouldn't go up.
So, first establish a balance,
then you weaken your psychological structure,
then a wonderful thing happens.
If you weaken your psychological structure without balance,
which many people do today...
See, why do some people want to consume alcohol and take drugs?
Because you weaken your psychological structure and feel free for the moment.
But without the necessary balance
if you haven't worked to have balance, but you have been set free,
freedom without balance is destruction, anarchy, isn't it?
So, first you work for balance,
a huge sense of balance,
and even if you demolish your psychological structure,
you can just live here.
Demolishing the psychological structure is an important process
because this is your trap,
it is your safety, it
is your stability
and at the same time, it is your trap.
Because of the walls, you feel safe, but it's a trap.
If you destroy your trap,
you also lose your safety, right?  You
also lose your purpose.
You lose everything that matters to you.
So, that's why balance is needed.
Without balance, if you destroy you will go crazy.
But don't look for a goal,
because if you're looking for a goal, you're looking for madness.
If you find it, you are definitely crazy.  Yes.
If you think you've found the purpose of life, you've
definitely gone crazy
because only crazy people have a purpose,
or people who have a purpose are crazy in many ways.
These are things you create in your mind
and believe are real, right?
At this moment, "fighting for my country is my goal."
At this moment, if necessary, I will fight, knowing full well that it is a bloody and useless fight.  Yes.
Then you will fight only as long as necessary.
If you think that's your goal,
you'll want to destroy the entire world for the absurdity you believe in, won't you?
Whatever is necessary, we will do it
with...with total commitment.  There
is no other purpose.
The purpose of life is to live and live fully.
Living fully doesn't mean partying every night.
Living fully means that
before you die, you have explored every aspect of life;
nothing has been left unexplored.  Yes
?
Before you die, even if you haven't explored the cosmos,
at least you must have fully known this side of life.
At least do that for yourself, right?
This means living totally, experiencing this whole,
this whole in all its dimensions.
You left nothing untouched.  Just do this
.  It will take you a
long time.
It's...a goal enough for you.